(THEME MUSIC PLAYING)
(NARRATOR READING)
NARRATOR:
"Journey of Memories."
MAKINI:
Look! The Tree of Life!
This is the next
moja kwa moja stone,
all right.
Then we're still
on the right path
to the Tree of Life.
But that painting
shows a river.
You call this a river?
It might have been
a big river at some point.
Landscapes can
change over time
or with the seasons.
Just like the dry season
back home.
Ono, what's the
next landmark?
Nawaza...
It's a pool of water.
With rocks all around it.
Anga?
Yep.
Oh! I remember
this river now.
I was here
with my mom and dad
when I was little.
On my first trip
to the Tree of Life.
It had a lot more water
back then.
Well, any river
I can hop across
has enough water for me.
So, Makini,
was Rafiki here with you too?
Nope.
My mom and dad were
taking me to the Tree of Life
to meet Rafiki.
We had so much fun!
Ooh! Cold! Cold! Cold!
(GRUNTS)
(SHIVERING)
You're right, Makini!
This water's freezing!
(LAUGHS) Dad!
Oh, Kitendo, my love.
(CHUCKLES)
You know the saying.
"Test the water
before diving in."
(CHUCKLES)
But then again...
(GASPING)
"If you want
to take a bath,
"you should not be afraid
to get cold."
As usual,
you are right, Fikiri.
But my way is way more fun!
(ALL LAUGH)
FULI: Makini!
Oops. Sorry, Fuli.
BUNGA:  Zuka Zama!
Careful, Bunga!
You know the saying,
"Test the water
before diving in!"
(SCOFFS)
Where's the fun in that?
(CHUCKLES)
You sound like my dad.
Hey, Anga!
You find the next
moja kwa moja stone?
I found a rocky pool
with small boulders.
But it's dry.
Oh. That doesn't
seem right.
The pool I remember
had lots of water.
And the boulders
were huge!
It matches
Ono's description.
It's just...
Drier.
Well, if this river
has less water,
it makes sense
that the pool
would be dry, too.
Wait! I remember
those trees!
There's a waterfall
down there! It's amazing!
Uh, that's the opposite
direction of the pool.
But it's so beautiful!
Can we go, Kion?
Please?
Well, I guess a little detour
out of our way would be okay.
Lead on, Makini!
(WHOOPING)
MAKINI: Uh, right
around this corner.
(GASPS) We're here!
This is it!
Or was it?
Uh, am I just
not seeing it?
Well, it used to be here.
Water was pouring
down this rock.
(GASPS) Oh, look! See?
I wouldn't
call that pouring.
Look!
One of Rafiki's paintings.
That wasn't here last time.
I wonder if it's
a moja kwa moja stone.
Nope. No Tree of Life.
But now we know
this used to be a waterfall.
Maybe Rafiki
saw the waterfall
on his trip
to the Tree of Life
and painted it
just because it was  poa.
That makes sense.
He paints things
all the time
in the Pride Lands.
So, the next
moja kwa moja stone
is this way.
KION: Let's go, everyone.
Did you see the waterfall
with your mom and dad too?
Yeah! I saw so many
amazing things on our trip
to the Tree of Life!
Oh! I remember
something really fun
down that way! Come on!
Makini?
Where are you going now?
See this rock?
It has a big hole
near the bottom that you can
stick your arm through!
I wanna try! I wanna try!
So, where's the hole?
Think I can get
my head in it?
I don't see it.
I was sure
this was the rock.
But maybe it's not.
Sorry, Makini,
but we have to keep moving.
(GROANS)
Lousy rock with no hole!
Ow!
Okay. So maybe
that wasn't the right rock.
(GASPS)
But there is something
really amazing
right over there!
Seriously?
So, what are we
looking at?
That mountain right there!
The one that looks
like a monkey's face!
Don't see it.
Hmm... We might
have to get lower.
And tilt
our heads a little.
It doesn't look
like anything at all.
Can we go now?
Good idea.
Sorry, Makini.
Maybe you're remembering
a different mountain.
Here we are.
Finally.
Yes! This is it!
And it looks just
the way I remember it.
Except there's no water.
And I thought
the boulders were bigger.
Maybe you were smaller?
Oh, yeah.
This painting matches
what I saw on Rafiki's map.
Makini?
Yep. That's
a  moja kwa moja stone.
Ono, what's next?
Nawaza.
The next landmark
is four white flowers
in the shape of a diamond.
They're in a field
of smaller white flowers.
Anga?
Yep.
Anga lenga!
I don't remember
any white flowers,
but I do remember
a really amazing...
ALL: No!
Sorry, Makini.
But no more detours.
We need to keep moving.
(SIGHS)
Don't be sad, Makini.
Your detours
are really fun.
Thanks, Beshte.
I had a lot of fun
with my mom and dad
the last time I was here.
In fact, this is where
they first told me
I might be a Royal Mjuzi.
Really?  Poa.
Yeah. It was  poa.
FIKIRI:
Time to go, Makini!
(MAKINI LAUGHS)
KITENDO:
Makini, wrong way!
Rafiki should make paintings
that mark the way
to the Tree of Life.
(LAUGHING)
Whoa!
Whoa, whoa, whoa!
(SIGHS)
Well, that way does
look more fun, doesn't it?
(LAUGHS) Yeah!
But this is the way
we must go to get
to the Tree of Life.
Why?
Because Rafiki
would like to meet you.
Why?
Rafiki is a Royal Mjuzi.
And he believes
that you may also grow up
to be a Royal Mjuzi.
But only the
Voices of the Past
at the Tree of Life
will let him know
for sure.
Oh!
But... But why me?
Because you're wise
like your mother.
Or because you're curious
and fun like your father.
But mainly,
because you are you.
(GIGGLES)
But no matter what,
you'll always be
our Makini.
And we'll always
be with you.
Until you're ready
to go out on your own.
KION: Anga! You find
the white flowers?
Nope.
Great! Then let's...
Wait, what?
No sign of white flowers.
Or anywhere
flowers would grow.
So, what did you see?
Desert straight ahead.
Oh! I remember the desert!
We have to cross it.
And head toward the cliffs.
I didn't see any cliffs.
There aren't any cliffs
in Rafiki's painting either.
Just the field of flowers.
But the river, waterfall
and pool are all dried up.
Maybe there used
to be flowers here
when there was water.
I don't remember flowers.
But I definitely
remember the desert.
We walked
all the way across it
until we reached the cliffs.
Kion, Makini's memories
haven't exactly
been reliable so far.
I know. But if we
can't find the next
moja kwa moja stone,
we can't find
the Tree of Life.
Makini is the only
one of us who's been
to the Tree of Life before.
Isn't that why Rafiki
sent her with us?
Okay, Makini.
Lead the way!
Yes!
Okay, everybody,
follow me!
(SIGHS IN EXASPERATION)
Beshte, are you okay?
Yeah, I guess.
Hapana! Beshte!
You're starting
to get sunburned!
What? Everyone, stop!
We've gotta find
Beshte some shade!
Kion's right. Hippos
don't do well in the sun!
There's no shade anywhere.
Nothing but sand.
Ooh! That's better.
Hey, that's a great idea!
Anga! Can you keep
flying above Beshte
so he's in your shadow?
I guess.
Thanks, Anga.
No problem.
Makini, you're sure
we're going the right way?
I'm sure!
Straight across the desert
toward the cliffs!
Guys, I know it's cooler
in the shade,
but Beshte might feel better
if you weren't
riding on his back.
ANGA:
Everyone, look out!
(WIND BLOWING)
(SPITS AND GROANS)
(EXHALES) Thanks, Anga.
Indeed.
And thanks for the lift,
Beshte.
Yeah. Thanks, Beshte.
(LOUD THUMP)
Uh, what was that?
There it is again.
Whoa! Let me try.
(THUMPING)
(LAUGHS) Whatever it is,
it's un-Bunga-lievable!
ONO: Hmm.
This must be
a booming sand dune.
I've heard about them,
but never actually heard them.
Well, wait 'til
you hear this!
(LOUD THUMPING CONTINUES)
Oh! I remember this, too.
(THUMPING CONTINUES)
My mom and dad and I
had so much fun here!
(GROANS)
Makini.
Is this why
you brought us out here?
Because you thought
it would be fun?
What? No, Kion...
We don't have time
for any more
of your detours!
Kion, Makini never said
this was a detour.
(GROANS)
You sure you're okay?
Maybe you should have
some Tuliza.
(GROANS) I don't need Tuliza!
Kion...
I... I'm sorry.
I'm hot, tired, thirsty,
and covered with sand.
But that's no excuse.
I shouldn't have yelled.
So... If we're
all good again,
let's have some more fun!
(LOUD THUMPING)
Bunga!
JERBOA: Can't you keep it
down out here?
How can a fella
get any sleep
with all this stomping
going on up here?
(THUMPING)
Aw! You're so tiny!
And so mad!
You better believe I'm mad!
You're a jerboa,
aren't you?
Of course, I'm a jerboa!
And like any decent
desert creature,
I was asleep!
In the middle
of the day?
Of course,
in the middle of the day!
Nobody travels
around the dunes
in the full sun!
What kind of ridiculous...
(GROWLS)
(YELPS)
Never mind!
Have a good day!
I didn't mean
to scare him.
With that face,
you could almost scare me.
Almost.
Sorry, everybody,
but this isn't working.
We're going back.
You sure?
Yes.
We'll go back to the last
moja kwa moja stone,
and start over.
There's no field
of flowers here.
But I'm sure that
we're going the right way.
It can't be
that much farther.
We'll follow our footprints
back across the desert
and start again.
(WIND BLOWING)
Whoa!  Heyvi kabisa!
BESHTE: Everybody!
Hide behind us! Hurry!
(ONO YELPS)
Ugh!
(SIGHS)
That's never gonna get old.
I know, right?
Come on.
Let's head back to the...
Where did our footprints go?
Anga, do you see them?
Nope.
Hapana. Our footprints
must have been swept away
by the sand storm.
(SNIFFING)
Fuli, can you make out
our scent?
Which way did we
come from?
(SNIFFING)
(SIGHS)
I can't tell, Kion.
The wind blew the sand
and our scent
all over the place.
Well, which dunes
did we pass?
The dunes all look different
than before the storm.
ONO: The dunes
must have shifted.
Sand dunes can
shift in the wind.
Common knowledge, real...
Then how are we
gonna know which way to go?
(GROWLS)
MAKINI: Uh, Kion...
Maybe you could
use some Tuliza?
(SPITS) I can't
eat that, Makini!
It's covered in sand!
Oh. Sorry, Kion.
We don't know where we are
or which way to go.
But we can't stay
out here in the sun.
Especially Beshte.
You're right, Kion!
What?
It's just like
the jerboa said.
Most desert animals
don't stay out in the sun.
They shelter during the day
and only come out at night.
Oh! So maybe
we can make shelter.
Indeed!
We could dig a burrow
under the sand!
That's what jerboas do.
Burrow?
Stand aside, Ono!
Nobody digs like
a honey badger digs!
Here. Let me help.
(SIGHS)
I know that I was here
with you, Mom.
But my friends think
we might be going
the wrong way.
I wish I could just run back
to the Pride Lands
and ask you for help.
What would you say?
Maybe...
"As you move forward..."
"Don't forget to look back."
Like this?
Whoa...
Makini!
I meant, when we look back
at where we've been,
we can learn.
Even from our mistakes.
Oh.
(WHOOPS AND LAUGHS)
Come on, you two.
Let's keep going.
I always say,
"It's more fun to step forward
than it is to sit still."
That is good advice, Kitendo.
Wait, what?
I gave good advice?
(LAUGHS)
(LOUD THUMP)
Hey, listen to that.
(THUMPING)
(FIKIRI LAUGHS)
I never thought a step forward
could make so much noise.
(CHUCKLES)
♪ Your life is a journey
♪ And you learn as you grow
♪ So don't let worry
stop you
♪ If you're unsure
♪ Of where to go
♪ Just one step
is a good way to start
♪ If it's right,
you'll know in your heart
♪ Once you've found
you're on the right track
♪ As you move forward...
KITENDO: (SINGING)
BOTH:
♪ As you move forward...
♪ Don't forget to look back
♪ So when you hit a problem
♪ It won't be
the first or last
♪ Your life will be
what you make it
♪ With help
♪ From what's in your past
♪ Just one step
is a good way to start
♪ If it's right,
you'll know in your heart
♪ Once you've found
you're on the right track
FIKIRI: (SINGING)
♪ As you move forward...
KITENDO: (SINGING)
BOTH:
♪ As you move forward...
♪ Don't forget to look back
♪ Every time
you try something new
CHORUS:  ♪ Try something new
♪ Just believe
in what you can do
CHORUS:  ♪ What you can do
BOTH:  ♪ No one else
can do that for you
♪ When you've succeeded,
you'll know it's true
♪ Just one step
is a good way to start
♪ If it's right,
you'll know in your heart
♪ Once you've found
you're on the right track
♪ As you move forward...
BOTH:
♪ Don't forget to look back
KITENDO: (SINGING)
BOTH:
♪ Don't forget to look back ♪
So, Makini,
"As you move forward..."
"Don't forget to look back."
Hey, Makini. You okay?
My mom says,
"As you move forward,
don't forget to look back."
But when I do look back,
I'm not remembering
things right.
I feel like
I'm letting Kion down.
You know what
my dad always says.
"The water is always cleaner
at the front of the hippo."
You gotta leave
those mistakes behind you.
We all know
you're doing your best.
The last time you were here,
you were real little.
A lot of things
have changed since then.
KION: Beshte's right.
It's not your fault
everything's dry here now.
So, now that it's night,
we can get going again...
If we knew which way to go.
Well, it's more fun
to step forward
than it is to sit still.
Let's go this way!
(LOUD THUMP)
Did anybody take a step?
Nope.
ONO: Negative.
Not me.
MAKINI: No.
(THUMPING CONTINUES)
Someone's coming.
Oh, no! You again!
Wait!
I'm sorry
I scared you before.
I'm Kion. And this
is the Lion Guard.
We're just
passing through.
Well, then,
apology accepted.
Name's Tupp.
And let me apologize
for being rude.
I'm not really
a morning person.
I see you took my advice
about getting out of the sun.
Smart. You look
much more comfortable.
But you also look thirsty.
Follow me, my friends!
(THUMPING CONTINUES)
TUPP: I don't drink
much water myself,
but travelers coming
through here are always
looking for water. Here.
Uh, that's not water,
little guy.
Well, no, it's a plant.
But its leaves
can collect water.
See?
Plenty for everyone.
Here, Kion.
(CHOMPING)
Mmm, mmm, mmm.
(EXHALES DEEPLY)
Thanks, Makini.
I didn't see
this plant before.
It must have been
covered with sand.
How did you know it was here?
Well it's a plant.
It doesn't exactly move.
But how did you find it?
There aren't any
landmarks in this desert.
And the dunes keep moving.
Here in the desert,
we don't look down
at the ground to find our way.
We look up!
At the sky!
(ALL EXCLAIM)
It's so pretty!
It looks like
a field of flowers.
Oh, that's it!
That's the field of flowers!
Of course!
They're not flowers
on Rafiki's map.
They're stars!
Look! Four bright stars
in the shape of a diamond!
Ah, yes.
Those stars are always
in the same place in the sky,
spinning around in a circle.
Do you know where they lead?
(LAUGHS) Of course!
They always lead there.
Across the desert
to the tall cliffs.
BOTH: The cliffs?
Anga?
Got it. The
moja kwa moja stone
is on top of the cliffs!
You were right
all along, Makini.
Sorry we didn't believe you.
It's okay, Kion.
Thanks, Tupp.
We can find our way
from here.
MAKINI: Oh, oh!
And I know an amazing detour
on our way back
to the Pride Lands.
We can go see my mom
and dad, and tell them
all about our trip.
BESHTE:
That sounds  poa.